>> Evgenii Ray: So
next bit is the performance optimization.
So since we already passed for
the workshop and
you probably know where we
were going to start, so
the performance optimization is
split into the free section.
The first one is the network.
>> Evgenii Ray: The second
one is the rendering.
>> Evgenii Ray: And
the last one is the JavaScript,
so let's start with the network.
The first thing that we can do to optimize
the network is to migrate to HTTP2.
Since it will allow us to fetch
200 SSE in parallel within
one TCP connection it will also Utila
better utilize the device battery.
Because we don't need to create five
sockets in parallel compared to a CP1.
>> Evgenii Ray: The next thing is,
since we have HTTP2,
it's a very good idea to split the bundle.
So let's split it, so
we call it bundle split.
>> Evgenii Ray: And we can actually
split our bundle even more and
prepare the default,
for platform targets so
it can be ES5, and it can also be ES.
Next, so
we're reduce the size of the initial
bundle that we're loading on the screen.
So the next thing would be to
define defer the scripts, so
if we have any analytic scripts or
any non-critical stuff,
we can load this layer
once the page is loaded.
So it's also a good idea
to compress things.
So we want to make sure
that we're using Gzip or
at least broadly, actually it
should be in a different order.
So we should at least use the Gzip, and
then if we have the broadly support,
then it's better to use the broadly,
because Gzip will provide
around 85% compression.
They broadly provides
around 91% of compression.
Okay, so also one thing you want
to make sure that all your assets
are served not from the directly
from the API server but from CDN.
And this is also it's a very common means
from the web infrastructure perspective.
>> Evgenii Ray: When it comes to
your image to the images assets, so
let's create a section, assets for
the images you want to use the opt,
optimized format.
So make sure that you use WebP, or
you can also provide a full back for
JPEG if this doesn't work out.
Also use the font loading, so
if you have some custom fonts,
to use font loading
attribute to make sure that
you don't wait three seconds until
until the custom folder is loaded.
So what else we can do with
the our with the network?
So one thing that's, if you have such
budget in your, in your organization,
you may consider implementing
the optimization service.
So usually there is some kind of the API
that takes an image as an input,
and then outputs the compressed
version for the specific viewport.
So it ensures that you
don't load the image
which is too large for the screen.
So I think we're done
with the networking for
now, let's do the rendering.
And when it comes to rendering,
the first thing that you want to make
sure that you implement
is the DOM optimization.
So first thing,
you need to maintain the constant number
of nodes because if you maintain
a constant number of NOS,
then your device use the same the same
amount of memory all the time.
And it increases
the responsiveness of the app and
to do that,
you can consider to use the virtualisation
which we already used for
the infinite list loading.
Also make sure that your
CSS lectures are flattened,
if you have hundreds of CSS questions.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, there is a question.
Some performance optimizations
might add a lot of complexity or
time to the project, how do you know
when it's worth it when designing?
>> Evgenii Ray: So
follow the guidelines for web vitals,
if you see that your web vitals are not
perfect, like in a yellow zone,
and your first screen loading
performance is around four seconds.
And I guess it's a pretty bad
experience for the user, so
you don't need to be 99%
best at the web vitals, but
as long as your website is loading
pretty fast for the users,
then you provide this optimization.
So you do the optimization
when you actually need them,
if your website loads fast, you don't
need to overcomplicate the design.
Here we just list the possibilities of
what we can do on the system design tree.
Okay, so first,
you want to flat in the selectors.
>> Evgenii Ray: And if you have
hundreds of complex selects on the app,
it can add around 50 or 100 milliseconds
in total to the first screen rendering.
So make sure that you use
some naming methodology
that helps to simplify such selectors.
Also we want to make sure that
we do not trigger the reflow and
the way we do not trigger the reflow
is we by utilizing the properties
that trigger only limited
pipeline which is GPU based.
So as a follow up,
we need to make sure that we use CSS
transformation for the animations.
>> Evgenii Ray: So it's also good
practice to use some when we just
load our application,
we may want to consider to include
some loading icons in
the initial index HTML response.
So we give the good feedback to the user,
so we'll call it loading placeholders.
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, and what else
can be done on the rendering side?
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay,
I think we can now finish this section and
jump to the CSS, so the rule of thumb for
Creep is we shouldn't block the UI thread.
So make sure that you do
stuff as asynchronous
as possible, so if you have the heavy job,
go to the web worker or your API.
And if you can't use both,
one way we can do the asynchronous
job is to schedule the Idle callback.
So the Idle callback will
instruct the browser to find
the time frame to execute a piece
of job into the free space
of time while the browser
is not doing any rendering.
So we can provide the idle callback.
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, so
we also want to make sure that we
use asynchronous storages,
such as IndexDB.
And it's also a good thing to
implement the service worker,
the service worker is a very
simple type of background
workers that caches your assets.
So between your server, and the client,
the service worker
interrupts the requests and
it can put them into the Index DB.
And next time you load your asset,
it will be served from the Index DB so
you don't do additional network trip.
>> Evgenii Ray: So one thing about the
JavaScript is you need to make sure that
you reduce the downloadable code,
we already talked about
this in network section.
But the less the browser
needs to parse the better for
initial loading because when
you initiate the script,
the browser has to compile this and
provide the optimized runtime for that.
So make sure that you
reduce the GS payload.
I know it's pretty hard,
especially with the libraries,
but you can reduce that by
optimizing the network section
where we split the bundle and
also prepare the ES5 and ES next bundles.
So for the JavaScript,
I think we are done.
So, this is the performance
optimization section and
basically this is the end of the our
system design interview now, and
this should provide the good overview
of the points that we mentioned before.
So we wanted to design first
the efficient rendering of the list, so
we provided an explanation with
the virtualization then we also provide
an explanation how we store
the data efficiently.
And one thing that we may also
mention is we can also utilize our
Index DB to store the state data.
So we can out source the data from
runtime to the hard drive and
we also provided
the performance optimization
points that we can apply
to our application.
So this is basically what you can
do in 35 minutes time frame and
yeah this is Is it for the system design?
>> Speaker 2: So one of the non functional
requirements you talked about was offline
usage, could you just speak
a little bit to like,
which parts of this whole everything
you discussed fits into that?
>> Evgenii Ray: So
when we register the service worker, so
it basically registers on inside
a browser, it says, very small.
Script that basically caches
the resources in IndexDB, so you
can instruct the service worker to put the
HTML CSS images assets in the index DB.
And when you load your
application next time, so
it will interrupt the request
to the server and
serve your asset from the image DB so you
can open your application even offline.
>> Speaker 2: Is it worth getting into
how to invalidate the cache data from
index DB?
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah,
it's a pretty good problem.
If you have time you can discuss that but
I would if you actually
have the time left, one thing that
is cover is the accessibility and
accessibility with the virtualization
is a pretty complex topic.
If you have time to speak about
accessibility that would be probably
the better way to how
to organize your time.
>> Speaker 2: What's your TLDR on
accessibility and virtualization?
[LAUGH] Too much, okay.
>> Evgenii Ray: It cannot be TLDR but
the way how for instance,
the three there manages the accessibility.
So when you move elements around
the browser the screen reader loses access
loses understanding of ways in
which order elements are rendered.
Even if you apply the index
property to tell the browser,
okay, this is the second and the third
element, when you move them through CSS
transformation, browser
will not reread this.
So your screen reader will not be able to
understand that you move elements around.
And one way how can you handle
that is how the Twitter does that.
So they basically, they render,
fully re-rendered the list.
So when you move elements around, so
they do not have the full virtualization,
they instead limit the number of
rendered elements to some 10 or
20 elements and they re-render them fully.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
you don't get peer reflow benefits,
but you're still having less stuff.
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, and so
if you want to manage this using the ECS
when we just move elements around and
reduce the reflow,
then you would need to manually set up
the event handlers that will track the.
The keyboard events, and
we'll go through the list manually.
And they will also focus the element
that you are currently selecting,
and kind of try to force
the browser to read this one.